---
sidebar_position: 2
title: 🚀 Quick Start
---

# Quick Start

:::info
SafeDep Cloud provides a control and data aggregation service on top of security tools like [vet](https://github.com/safedep/vet).
Refer to [SafeDep Cloud](./index.md) for more information.
:::info

SafeDep cloud allows `vet` users to connect and report its findings to a central location (SafeDep Cloud). Subsequently, users of the service can perform various tasks such as

1. Query by risks
2. Observe policy violations generated by `vet`
3. Manage, test and deploy policies across all instances of `vet`

The process involves following steps

1. Onboard to SafeDep Cloud
2. Generate an API key for use with `vet`
3. Configure `vet` to sync its finding to SafeDep Cloud
4. Query consolidate data from all `vet` deployments

:::tip
The `vet` tool is extended with cloud management functionality. All cloud management related commands are available within `vet cloud` sub-command. However, not all users of `vet` need to use the cloud functionality. It is meant only for administrative and management operations.
:::

## Onboard to SafeDep Cloud

Follow the steps below to onboard into SafeDep Cloud. This is required only for administrators who want to configure `vet` to synchronize data and policies with SafeDep Cloud. This is not required for independent use of `vet`.

### 1. Install `vet`

Start by [installing vet](/quickstart) if you don't already have it installed. Ensure you are using a version that supports the `cloud` subcommand.

### 2. Login to SafeDep Cloud

```shell
vet cloud login
```

:::info
If you sign-up using email and password, you will be required to verify
your email address before you can authenticate.
:::

Once you have registered, verify that you are authenticated to SafeDep cloud.

### 3. Onboard your Organization

Create an organization that will group (isolate) all your projects, policies and data

```shell
vet cloud register --name "John Doe" \
  --org-name "Organization Name" \
  --org-domain example.com
```

On successful on-boarding, you will receive the SafeDep cloud `tenant domain`. It will be like `default-team.example-com.safedep.io`. `vet` will automatically configure this domain on your local system. You need to note this domain for usage in CI/CD. You will also receive an email with the required details.

### 4. Verify Onboarding

```shell
vet cloud whoami
```

This should list your registered user and your organization on SafeDep cloud.

### 5. Create API Key for `vet` Integration

Generate an API key for use with `vet` for syncing report data to SafeDep cloud.

```shell
vet cloud key create --name "Key Name" --description "Key description"
```

## Configure `vet` with SafeDep Cloud

Once the API key is generated

```shell
vet auth configure --tenant <tenant-domain>
```

### Send Data to SafeDep Cloud

```shell
vet scan -M /path/to/package-lock.json --report-sync \
  --report-sync-project my-project \
  --report-sync-project-version my-project-version
```

> `package-lock.json` is used as an example manifest. `vet` supports a wide variety of package manifest and code analysis.

### Configure GitHub Action

If you are using [vet-action](https://github.com/safedep/vet-action) with GitHub, you can configure it to send issues and policy violations to SafeDep Cloud.

1. Create a [GitHub Action Secret](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-for-github-actions/security-guides/using-secrets-in-github-actions) to store the API key generated earlier and your tenant domain
2. Update your `vet-action` workflow to enable cloud mode

```yaml
[...]
  cloud: true
  cloud-key: ${{ secrets.SAFEDEP_CLOUD_API_KEY }}
  cloud-tenant: ${{ secrets.SAFEDEP_CLOUD_TENANT_DOMAIN }}
[...]
```

## Query Aggregated Data

SafeDep cloud maintains a component oriented data model for all your projects, OSS components, vulnerabilities, security insights and policy violations. You can query this data to find exactly what you need.

### SQL Query Interface

The `vet cloud` subcommand provides a generic SQL-like query interface that can be used to find what you need.

:::tip
You need to be authenticated with SafeDep cloud to execute queries.

`vet cloud login --tenant <your-tenant-domain>`
:::

#### List projects synchronized with SafeDep Cloud

```shell
vet cloud query execute --sql "select projects.name, projects.version from projects"
```

#### Find critical vulnerabilities affecting a component in `main` branch

```shell
vet cloud query execute --sql \
  "
    select projects.name, packages.name, packages.version, vulnerabilities.cve_id from projects
      where projects.version = 'main' and vulnerabilities.risk = 'CRITICAL'
  "
```

#### Find components with policy violations in `main` branch

> To learn more about policies, refer to [policy as code](../advanced/policy-as-code.md)

```shell
vet cloud query execute --sql \
  "
    select projects.name, packages.name, packages.version, policy_violations.rule_name from projects
      where projects.version = 'main'
  "
```

#### View schema to build your own queries

```shell
vet cloud query schema
```

### Export Data

All `vet cloud query` commands support CSV export by default. To export results as CSV

```shell
vet cloud query execute \
  --csv results.csv \
  --sql "select projects.name, projects.version from projects"
```
